Welcome back.
Let's talk about interpreters and compilers which as we can see are important pieces in our JavaScript
engine.
You see in programming there are generally two ways of translating to machine language or something
that our computers can understand and or we're going to talk about here actually applies to most programming
languages not just Javascript Python Java C++ any language you can think of is going to use some of
these concepts.
So it's very important let's start with the first one the interpreter with an interpreter.
What we do is we translate and read the files line by line on the fly.
Let's have a look at how this works.
I have a piece of code here that well doesn't do very much does it.
I have a function that does some calculation and we just loop over this calculation which is five plus
four right over here and we do that all a thousand times.
That's a long time and you see that we get the result nine over here.
But the loop is happening over and over.
So if I go console dot log here I we see that yeah this is looping over and over and over now with an
interpreter.
If I give this file to an interpreter the translation happens line by line on the fly and this is how
you think the code should be run right.
The interpreter sees the first line.
Then the second line then the third line and says All right this is a function.
And then it goes to the next part and says All right I should loop over this a bunch of times and it
starts doing some calculation.
It's going to go and see.
All right.
That's what the function is.
I'm going to run five plus four and then I'm looping again.
So I'm going to go once again run some calculation five plus for some calculation five plus four.
And it keeps running keeps running keeps running and this is how you might think code should be run.
Right because interpreting code simply means taking a set of instructions like we have over here and
returning an answer and doing something with that code.
It's just like me telling a computer to do this.
Then do that then do this and initially that's how javascript worked it was interpreting using an interpreter
which makes sense.
All right.
But what about a compiler.
What's the deal with a compiler.
Well a compiler I like an interpreter doesn't translate on the fly.
What it does is it works ahead of time to create a translation of what code we've just written and it
compiles down to usually a language that can be understood by our machines.
Let's have a look at this in more detail with a compiler this time around it's going to take one pass
through the code and try to understand what the code does and it's going to take the program in JavaScript
or any type of language and write a new program in your new language.
Let's say two programming language.
Why or acts in this language that it spits out let's call it just x.
Well this language that it spits out if we interpret it this language that is going line by one one
at a time and running it it's going to create the same results as our previous language.
So compiler tries to understand what we want to do and takes our language and changes it into something
else and this usually happens into something called a lower level language such as machine code.
Now I know you're still a little bit confused.
You see the definition itself is actually a little bit fuzzy in some respects all languages have to
be interpreted and compiled because it has to run it has to be interpreted and it also has to most likely
get translated into something low level like machine code for example.
We have a high level language here like Javascript and we run a piece of code here an interpreter will
take this code line by line and spit out bite code like this that will execute this code for us or a
compiler might take this code and go through this and spit out machine code just like that so that it
can give it to a CPSU so that the CPSU can actually run the code but remember how I said a program or
most languages are both compiled and interpreted because over here x 86 code which is machine code this
is handed off to the CPSU and it needs to interpret these instructions and in reality when it comes
to x eighty six is actually too slow to be interpreted literally.
So instead most modern CPE use will compile this X 86 code into its own native micro code.
So as you can see here there's a lot of layers that happen on and on but the main takeaways is this.
There are two ways to run javascript using an interpreter or a compiler.
Now I know it's still a little bit fuzzy but if I ask you why would we want to do one over the other.
What are the pros and cons on each.
What do you think that is.
Why would you pick one over the other in the next video we're going to explore that.
I'll see you now.
Bob.